Collections 
===========

Understanding Collections 
------------------------- 
A collection can be defined as a combination of a number of resources like
photographs and documents specific to a segment of the research. A researcher
can create any number of collections for a particular research study. They are
a medium to correlate the different resources under specific segments of the
research; however they need not have anything in common.

### Notebook 
A notebook is a special type of collection made up of many notebook pages. It
is idiosyncratic and has a structural characteristic particular to an
individual user or a group of users. It is technically a collection, but in
many ways, ARCS treats it like a single resource. You can learn more about the
notebook pages at the [Resources](about-resources) section.

Creating Collections 
-------------------- 
You can create a collection on the search page, by selecting a set of desired
resources and then clicking on `Collection` and selecting the `Create new
collection` from the drop down as shown below: You can also add resources to
your collection by selecting the `Add to existing collection` in the drop down.

You can access that collection later by going to your profile page and
navigating to your collections tab. You can also search for your collection
with a collection facet on the search page.

![add-resources](../img/docs/add-resources.png)

You can add name to your collection by adding a title to it and give a brief
description of the collection you just created as follows:

![create-collection](../img/docs/create-collection.png)

**Title** : A title can be defined as a general semantic which associates
itself to the content of the resources.

**Description** : The description should be a short explanation of the
resources and their association within the collection.

You can flag or edit attributes of each resource in a collection as a single
operation. You can learn more about it in the [Bulk Actions](bulk-actions)
section.

### Bookmark 
A bookmark is a special form of collection which does not necessarily be a part
of a research study. It can be a set of resources which you would want to study
and use it in some form in the future. You can select any number of resources
and then click on `Collection` and select the `Add to bookmarks` option in the
drop down.
